An excellent work for it's insights into working on a team of experts during a period of massive growth in an industry, Dealers Of Lightning documents the founding, development, zenith, and eventual decline of the famous Xerox PARC, a research campus that spawned a huge number of computer systems that are now ubiquitous in our world. The work documents the processes and results of domain experts given the resources and space that allow them to develop a spate of revolutions concepts in just a few short years. The work done in PARC yielded, from 1907-77, such inventions as Ethernet, the Desktop Computer, and the Laser Printer.

	Hiltzik focuses much of the book on the managers of these domain experts, highlighting the aspects of their management philosophy that were both successful and destructive. Successful managers at PARC were those without the technical knowledge to tell the experts underneath them what was and was not practical (or even possible), but with the psychological knowledge to understand how and when to push employees to move outside of their comfort zones while managing the conflicts that came with the subsequent clashes of ego. The result is a work environment which prioritizes truth and openness over employee relations and wellbeing; the consequence of this being a toxic, yet extremely innovative, work environment.
	
	The limits of the PARC research group are well-documented, Xerox famously was unwilling (more likely incapable) of adapting any of the breakthroughs from PARC into a marketable product (with the exception of the laser printer, whose development alone was capable of saving the entire Xerox corporation). An isolated research centre staffed by eccentric geniuses and unconventional managers proved incapable of navigating the political labyrinths a corporation as massive as Xerox, with great concepts continuously being shot-down by upper management. It is difficult to come away from this book blaming PARC management, however, since the arrangement was developed and endorsed by Xerox itself. The failure of a company to take advantage of a revolutionary phenomenon they themselves created is a case study that has cropped up countless times in history (and undoubtedly will continue to appear for as long as corporations continue to exist).
	
	Ultimately, Dealers Of Lightning is a story of growth amongst decay. While the companies of the 1950s try desperately to stay afloat in the ever-growing digital ocean, their great grasps of air generate even more massive waves of revolutionary concepts and technologies. Time waits for no photocopier.