A window into a bygone age - for better or for worse - of computer engineering. Telling the story of Data General, an up-and-coming microcomputing company, and their quest to build a 32-bit computer in 1979. In some ways the story is romanticized, reading like the progenitor to an entire aspect of nerd-culture that would dominate the 80s and 90s. But the book, published in 1981, was written for an audience who may never have used even a typewriter, so the characters and explanations that come off as flat or simplistic today were a necessity of the era in which it was written. Even with this, the writing is concise and nothing is explained to the reader twice.

	Data General comes off as a tech company on the cutting edge, embodying the philosophy and culture that modern tech companies still seek to emulate. Talented, driven employees are encouraged to perform difficult jobs while shielded from upper management by their superiors. But the result is, unsurprisingly, a culture that demands constant performance, resulting in burnout even amongst the most competent and committed employees. The book in many ways hides the negative side of this culture, but the darker side of DG (well-known as an exploitative and cut-throat company at the time) comes through despite the fetishization of 70s tech culture.
	
	The book, published in 1981, is meant to enshrine the crowning moment of a wildly-successful 'modern' computer company, but modern readers will be struck by just how eerie everything reads today. Just a few months after the book was published, the IBM PC was released, essentially destroying the microcomputer market - and DG - in an instant. IBM appears in the background of the story as a behemoth, a sleeping giant so powerful that it forces it's competitors into fighting over scraps. But it also is seen by the employees of DG as one off the 'cutting edge,' relying on building complex, expensive, and needlessly bloated hardware. The release of the PC destroys this characterization, and knowing that the entire industry is on the precipice of inconceivable change leads to the book being soaked in dramatic irony. Data General, a company with the brightest programmers and engineers in the industry, won't survive the decade. And nobody can even see it coming.
	
	The (unintentional) moral of this story: you can have the best employees, empowering management, a great product, and a competent business plan, but the wheel turns quickly in the computer industry and often times in a manner that even the experts are incapable of predicting. In the tech industry, it isn't just incompetent companies (e.g. Xerox) or bad products (e.g. 90s Apple) that cause corporations to fail; paradigm shifts will inevitably leave someone in the dust. For Data General, it was a game rigged from the start, but at least they sit enshrined in the annals of computing history by virtue of this book.