My year-long obsession with Sci-Fi novels has led, at long last, to one of the most compelling books I've read in recent memory. This is probably Le Guin's most well-known book (certainly her most critically acclaimed, winning both the Nebula and Hugo awards. Though she achieved this again with The Dispossessed) and was an excellent introduction to her corpus. The journey of the protagonist(s?) was steeped in the mystery and otherworldly-ness that are the hallmarks of all strong Sci-Fi; both familiar and unfamiliar to those of us who have the misfortune to have only ever visited Earth.

	Probably the only book that I've started to re-read before even finishing the first reading, Le Guin feeds us information on the Gethenians and their glacial planet through the view of an alien visitor, the Earthman Genly Ai. The customs and history of the Gethenians are revealed to us through Ai, who blunders his way out of his position of envoy to the Gethenians from the Ekumen--a mysterious interstellar organization of Humans--and into a position of political prisoner through his inability to adapt to the social norms and customs of the Gethenians. As these blunders are revealed to us at the same time as they are to Genly (that is, after-the-fact), I found myself re-reading passages of the book with new information. This writing convention is an excellent and underutilized way to associate the reader more closely with the protagonist.

	The defining trait of the Gethenians is, to Ai and readers alike, their bisexual nature. They are sexless creatures that experience gender and sex only during a short period of 'Kemmer,' which occurs monthly. Genly struggles to accept the dual nature of these people (Le Guin makes sure to describe them as an off-shoot of humanity who developed this trait over the eons) and it's this struggle that prevents him from fully recognizing their humanity. Today's readers will easily be able to see the correlation with modern gender studies, but this was a relatively novel idea in 1969 (though it's important to note that nonbinary and other gender-nonconforming identities have existed since far before the writing of the novel) and modern readers are still forced to confront and recognize their own ideas on gender roles throughout the book.

	The Left Hand of Darkness is a book on reconciliation; the Gethenians are forced to reconcile their national differences in the face of a new alien race and institution and Genly Ai is forced to reconcile his conceptions of gender and sexuality in the face of a society that has the inverse opinions of his own. Le Guin tells a story of how a desire to bring about a better world for all people can be a panacea for the problems and trials of politics and ethics.
